# Construction of Noncontextual polytope and violation of facet inequalities in Quantum Theory
(i) For a prepare and measure scenario with both preparation and measurement equivalence obtain the extremal points of both the convex polytopes using [lcon2vert](https://in.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/30892-analyze-n-dimensional-convex-polyhedra) function.

(ii) Obtain the extremal points of Noncontextual polytope by multiplying the vertices of the two polytopes obtained in previous step. `Extremal_points.ipynb` performs this task. 

(iii) Convert the vertex representation to halfspace representation of the polytope. [Polymake](https://polymake.org/doku.php/user_guide/tutorials/apps_polytope) is a useful candidate for this task. The halfspace inequalities are the NC behaviours. Few such inequalities corresponding to different scenarios are listed in the folder `Facet inequalities`. The inequalities are in the standard format of [Polymake](https://polymake.org/doku.php/user_guide/tutorials/latest/coordinates). In a specific scenario, let $n_x,n_y,n_z$ be the number of possible preparations,measurements and outcomes respectively. Then the facet inequalities are in the format $c_0+c_1 p(0|0,0)+c_2 p(0|1,0)+\cdots +c_{n_x} p(0|n_x-1,0)+c_{n_x+1} p(0|0,1)+c_{n_x+2} p(0|1,1)+\cdots +c_{n_xn_y} p(0|n_x-1,n_y-1)+c_{n_xn_y+1} p(1|0,0)+c_{n_xn_y+2} p(1|1,0)+\cdots +c_{2n_xn_y} p(1|n_x-1,n_y-1)+c_{2n_xn_y+1} p(2|0,0)+\cdots +c_{n_zn_xn_y} p(n_z-1|n_x-1,n_y-1) \geq 0$ which are represented by enlisting only the coefficients $\{c_i\}$ s in the same order as above. The outcome probabilities are in the format $p(z|x,y)$.  

(iv) Find similar facet inequalities those can be converted into each other by exchanging labels, respecting the symmetry of the given scenario. Represent all similar facets by a single facet from that set. The folder `Similar facets identification` contains few such examples of different scenarios. 

(v) Check quantum behaviours using `SeeSaw` and `Q1_bound`.  
